QUICKSTART.md, before:

# 🚀 EchoLegal Quick Start

## Deploy in 30 Minutes

### 1. Get Stripe Payment Links (15 min)

1. Login to Stripe: https://dashboard.stripe.com
2. Create product "NDA Template" - $20
3. Create payment link → After payment redirect to: `https://echo-legal.com/download-success`
4. Copy payment link
5. Repeat for Service Agreement

### 2. Deploy to Vercel (10 min)

```bash
# Push to GitHub
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial EchoLegal"
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/echolegal.git
git push -u origin main
```

1. Go to https://vercel.com
2. Click "Add New Project"
3. Import from GitHub
4. Add environment variables:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_NDA_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/YOUR-LINK
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://echo-legal.com
   ```
5. Click "Deploy"

### 3. Connect Domain (5 min)

In Vercel:
1. Settings → Domains → Add `echo-legal.com`

In your domain provider:
1. Add A record: `@` → `76.76.21.21`
2. Add CNAME: `www` → `cname.vercel-dns.com`

**Done!** Site live at echo-legal.com

---

## Test Locally

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
# Open http://localhost:3000
```

---

## Adding New Contracts (10 min each)

1. Copy `app/[lang]/contracts/nda/page.tsx`
2. Rename to your contract
3. Edit content (title, description, clauses)
4. Add to `app/[lang]/contracts/page.tsx` list
5. Create Stripe payment link
6. Git push

---

## Need Help?

Read full README.md for:
- Complete documentation
- Troubleshooting
- Payment setup details
- Content management

**Support**: support@echo-legal.com

Commit message:

Global institutional cleanup: remove all emojis and normalize tone
Remove every emoji across 49 files spanning UI components, content pages,
data files, scripts, and documentation. Replace structural emoji usage
with typography, spacing, or neutral text alternatives. Normalize casual
and marketing-style language to institutional legal encyclopedia tone.

Files modified:
- 7 contract pages: removed emoji from legal disclaimers and download CTAs
- 3 encyclopedia guides: replaced checkbox/checkmark emojis with text markers
- 7 amerika/Turkish pages: removed warning and location pin emojis
- 5 legal/process pages: removed warning emojis from disclaimers
- About page: removed decorative emojis, rewrote casual pricing language
- 3 lib data files: cleared emoji icon/flag properties
- 5 script files: replaced checkbox emojis in template generators
- 8 markdown docs: removed all header emojis, normalized tone
- 3 template pages: removed legal disclaimer emojis
- 6 additional pages: removed remaining flag and decorative emojis
- 2 components: cleared emoji from LanguageSwitcher and StarterKitCTA

Preserved: all legal substance, routing, metadata, jurisdiction tagging,
contributor attribution, governance structure, and versioning.

Zero emojis remain. Build passes cleanly.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01CFXoZd5dCz1N2xxTjLMLRz

QUICKSTART.md, after:

# EchoLegal Quick Start

## Deploy in 30 Minutes

### 1. Get Stripe Payment Links (15 min)

1. Login to Stripe: https://dashboard.stripe.com
2. Create product "NDA Template" - $20
3. Create payment link → After payment redirect to: `https://echo-legal.com/download-success`
4. Copy payment link
5. Repeat for Service Agreement

### 2. Deploy to Vercel (10 min)

```bash
# Push to GitHub
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial EchoLegal"
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/echolegal.git
git push -u origin main
```

1. Go to https://vercel.com
2. Click "Add New Project"
3. Import from GitHub
4. Add environment variables:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_NDA_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/YOUR-LINK
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://echo-legal.com
   ```
5. Click "Deploy"

### 3. Connect Domain (5 min)

In Vercel:
1. Settings → Domains → Add `echo-legal.com`

In your domain provider:
1. Add A record: `@` → `76.76.21.21`
2. Add CNAME: `www` → `cname.vercel-dns.com`

The site will be live at echo-legal.com once DNS propagation completes.

---

## Test Locally

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
# Open http://localhost:3000
```

---

## Adding New Contracts (10 min each)

1. Copy `app/[lang]/contracts/nda/page.tsx`
2. Rename to your contract
3. Edit content (title, description, clauses)
4. Add to `app/[lang]/contracts/page.tsx` list
5. Create Stripe payment link
6. Git push

---

## Additional Resources

Refer to README.md for:
- Complete documentation
- Troubleshooting
- Payment setup details
- Content management

**Support**: support@echo-legal.com
