README.md, before:

# EchoLegal - Next.js Production Application

**Status**: Production-Ready
**Build Time**: ~2 hours  
**Deploy Time**: 30 minutes  

---

## Overview

A production-ready Next.js application with the following capabilities:

- **Full Bilingual Support** (EN/TR) with automatic language detection
- **Stripe Payment Integration** (Pay What You Can model)
- **Free Download System** with disclaimer acknowledgment
- **SEO Optimized** with JSON-LD schema on every page
- **Legal Disclaimers** on all pages and contract-specific warnings
- **Mobile Responsive** with professional legal-tech design
- **2 Live Contracts**: NDA and Service Agreement (ready to use)
- **Scalable Structure**: Supports adding additional contracts and articles  

---

## Deployment Guide (30 Minutes)

### Step 1: Get Your Stripe Payment Links (15 min)

1. Log into [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com)
2. Go to **Products** → **Add Product**
3. Create product: "NDA Template - EchoLegal"
   - Price: $20 USD (one-time)
   - Click **Save**
4. Click **Create Payment Link**
   - After payment → Redirect to: `https://echo-legal.com/download-success`
   - Copy the payment link (looks like: `https://buy.stripe.com/abc123xyz`)
5. Repeat for Service Agreement

### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel (10 min)

1. Push this code to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/echolegal.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
3. Click **"Add New Project"**
4. Import your GitHub repository
5. Configure environment variables:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_NDA_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/your-nda-link
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_SERVICE_AGREEMENT_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/your-service-link
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://echo-legal.com
   ```
6. Click **Deploy**

### Step 3: Connect Your Domain (5 min)

1. In Vercel project → **Settings** → **Domains**
2. Add: `echo-legal.com`
3. In your domain registrar (Squarespace, GoDaddy, etc.):
   - Add A record: `@` → `76.76.21.21`
   - Add CNAME record: `www` → `cname.vercel-dns.com`
4. Wait 5-10 minutes for DNS propagation

The site will be live at echo-legal.com once DNS propagation completes.

---

## Project Structure

```
echolegal-nextjs/
├── app/
│   └── [lang]/                    # Bilingual routing
│       ├── page.tsx               # Homepage
│       ├── layout.tsx             # Root layout
│       ├── contracts/
│       │   ├── page.tsx           # Contracts library
│       │   ├── nda/page.tsx       # NDA contract page
│       │   └── service-agreement/ # (Create following NDA pattern)
│       ├── encyclopedia/
│       │   └── page.tsx           # Encyclopedia (placeholder)
│       └── support/
│           └── page.tsx           # Support page
│
├── components/
│   ├── Header.tsx                 # Navigation + language switcher
│   ├── Footer.tsx                 # Footer with disclaimer
│   ├── DownloadSection.tsx        # Payment + free download
│   └── DownloadModal.tsx          # Free download modal
│
├── dictionaries/
│   ├── en.json                    # English translations
│   └── tr.json                    # Turkish translations
│
├── middleware.ts                  # Auto language detection
├── i18n-config.ts                 # i18n configuration
└── get-dictionary.ts              # Translation loader
```

---

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:3000
```

The site will auto-detect your browser language and redirect to /en or /tr.

---

## Adding New Contracts

### Quick Guide (10 minutes per contract):

1. **Create the page**:
   ```bash
   cp app/[lang]/contracts/nda/page.tsx app/[lang]/contracts/new-contract/page.tsx
   ```

2. **Edit the content** in `page.tsx`:
   - Change title, intro, clauses
   - Update `stripePaymentLink` variable
   - Translate both EN and TR sections

3. **Add to library** (`app/[lang]/contracts/page.tsx`):
   ```javascript
   {
     slug: 'new-contract',
     titleEn: 'Your Contract Name',
     titleTr: 'Sözleşme Adı',
     descEn: 'Description',
     descTr: 'Açıklama',
     available: true,
   }
   ```

4. **Create Stripe payment link** (see Step 1 above)

5. **Deploy**: `git push` (Vercel auto-deploys)

---

## Design System

### Colors
- **Legal Navy**: `#0A1628` (Primary, headers)
- **Legal Gold**: `#D4AF37` (CTA buttons, accents)
- **Legal Gray**: `#4A5568` (Body text)

### Typography
- **Headings**: Crimson Pro (serif)
- **Body**: Inter (sans-serif)

### Components
- **btn-primary**: Gold CTA buttons
- **btn-secondary**: Navy buttons
- **disclaimer-box**: Yellow warning boxes

---

## Legal Compliance

Every page includes:
- Global footer disclaimer
- "No legal advice" warning
- "No attorney-client relationship" notice
- Jurisdiction clarity
- Contract-specific disclaimers  

---

## SEO Features

- **JSON-LD Schema** on every page
- **hreflang tags** for bilingual SEO
- **Automatic sitemap** (via Next.js)
- **Meta tags** optimized per page
- **OpenGraph** ready for social sharing

### SEO Audit

An automated audit script checks every URL in the production sitemap for:
- Exactly one `<link rel="canonical">` pointing to `echo-legal.com`
- Correct language prefix (`/en` or `/tr`) in the canonical URL
- `hreflang` alternates for `en`, `tr`, and `x-default`
- No duplicate sitemap entries

```bash
# Run locally (requires the production site to be live)
npm run seo:audit
```

This also runs automatically on every push and PR via GitHub Actions.

### To submit sitemap:
1. Go to [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console)
2. Add property: `echo-legal.com`
3. Submit sitemap: `https://echo-legal.com/sitemap.xml`

---

## Payment Flow

### Paid Download:
1. User clicks "I CAN Afford It – $20"
2. Redirects to Stripe Checkout
3. After payment → Redirects to `/download-success`
4. User downloads document

### Free Download:
1. User clicks "I CANNOT Afford It – Free"
2. Modal appears with disclaimer
3. User checks acknowledgment
4. Download begins immediately

---

## Bilingual System

### How it works:
- `/` → Auto-detects language → Redirects to `/en` or `/tr`
- `/en` → English version
- `/tr` → Turkish version
- Language switcher in header switches between versions
- All content translated in `dictionaries/en.json` and `dictionaries/tr.json`

### Adding translations:
Edit `dictionaries/en.json` or `tr.json` to add new strings.

---

## Dependencies

**Core**:
- Next.js 14 (App Router)
- React 18
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS

**Payments**:
- Stripe (via payment links - no server code needed)

**Content**:
- gray-matter (Markdown frontmatter - for future articles)
- marked (Markdown parsing)

---

## Important Notes

### Environment Variables
**Never commit `.env.local`** to Git. It contains sensitive data.

Always use `.env.example` as template.

### Stripe Test Mode
Test payments first:
- Use test mode in Stripe
- Test card: `4242 4242 4242 4242`
- Switch to live mode when ready

### Document URLs
Currently pointing to placeholder `/documents/nda-template.pdf`.

**To fix**:
1. Upload PDFs to `/public/documents/`
2. Update paths in contract pages
3. Or use external CDN (recommended for larger files)

---

## Performance

**Expected Lighthouse Scores**:
- Performance: 95+
- Accessibility: 100
- Best Practices: 100
- SEO: 100

Vercel automatically optimizes:
- Image optimization
- Code splitting
- CDN caching
- Edge functions

---

## Updating Content

### Quick content updates (no redeploy):
Edit content directly in page files → Git push → Vercel auto-deploys in ~1 min

### Adding contracts:
1. Copy existing contract page
2. Edit content
3. Add to contracts library list
4. Push to Git

---

## Technical Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| Framework | Next.js 14 (App Router) |
| Language | TypeScript |
| Styling | Tailwind CSS |
| Hosting | Vercel |
| Payments | Stripe Checkout |
| i18n | Custom middleware |
| SEO | JSON-LD schema |

---

## Pre-Launch Checklist

Before going live:

- [ ] Stripe payment links configured
- [ ] Environment variables set in Vercel
- [ ] Domain connected and SSL active
- [ ] Test payment in Stripe test mode
- [ ] Test free download flow
- [ ] Test language switching
- [ ] Test on mobile device
- [ ] Submit sitemap to Google
- [ ] Set up Google Analytics (optional)
- [ ] Upload actual contract PDFs
- [ ] Review all legal disclaimers

---

## Troubleshooting

### Site not redirecting to /en or /tr
- Clear browser cache
- Check middleware.ts is present
- Verify middleware.ts is not in `.gitignore`

### Payment not working
- Verify Stripe payment link is correct
- Check redirect URL matches deployed site
- Ensure Stripe is in live mode (not test)

### Download not working
- Check document URLs in contract pages
- Verify files exist in `/public/documents/`
- Check browser console for errors

### Language switcher not working
- Check Header.tsx has correct logic
- Verify URLs are formatted correctly
- Clear browser cache

---

## Support

For questions or issues:
- Check GitHub issues
- Email: support@echo-legal.com

---

## Summary

The application is production-ready with the following capabilities:
- Bilingual EN/TR
- Stripe payments
- Free downloads
- SEO optimized

**Recommended next steps**:
1. Add more contract templates (approximately 10 minutes each)
2. Create encyclopedia articles
3. Distribute to target audience
4. Monitor analytics

**Estimated time to add 10 contracts**: approximately 2 hours
**Maintenance**: less than 1 hour per week

---

**EchoLegal**
**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: January 21, 2026

Commit message:

Harden SEO audit: validate sitemap XML + hreflang alternates
Add Phase 1 sitemap XML structural validation to seo-audit.mjs:
- Verify response is valid XML (content-type or body structure)
- Assert xmlns:xhtml namespace is declared on <urlset>
- Assert at least one <xhtml:link> exists
- Per <url>: exactly one <loc>, all 3 required hreflangs (en, tr,
  x-default), no duplicate hreflang values
- No duplicate <loc> across the entire sitemap

This catches the class of regression where app/sitemap.ts breaks at
runtime (e.g. bad import in metadata route context) and falls back to
plain-text output without XML structure or xhtml:link alternates.

Update README SEO Audit section to document the new checks and fix
outdated trigger description.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01DaYbuGPb8EviWQhzFwYpSy

README.md, after:

# EchoLegal - Next.js Production Application

**Status**: Production-Ready
**Build Time**: ~2 hours  
**Deploy Time**: 30 minutes  

---

## Overview

A production-ready Next.js application with the following capabilities:

- **Full Bilingual Support** (EN/TR) with automatic language detection
- **Stripe Payment Integration** (Pay What You Can model)
- **Free Download System** with disclaimer acknowledgment
- **SEO Optimized** with JSON-LD schema on every page
- **Legal Disclaimers** on all pages and contract-specific warnings
- **Mobile Responsive** with professional legal-tech design
- **2 Live Contracts**: NDA and Service Agreement (ready to use)
- **Scalable Structure**: Supports adding additional contracts and articles  

---

## Deployment Guide (30 Minutes)

### Step 1: Get Your Stripe Payment Links (15 min)

1. Log into [Stripe Dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com)
2. Go to **Products** → **Add Product**
3. Create product: "NDA Template - EchoLegal"
   - Price: $20 USD (one-time)
   - Click **Save**
4. Click **Create Payment Link**
   - After payment → Redirect to: `https://echo-legal.com/download-success`
   - Copy the payment link (looks like: `https://buy.stripe.com/abc123xyz`)
5. Repeat for Service Agreement

### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel (10 min)

1. Push this code to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/echolegal.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
3. Click **"Add New Project"**
4. Import your GitHub repository
5. Configure environment variables:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_NDA_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/your-nda-link
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_SERVICE_AGREEMENT_LINK=https://buy.stripe.com/your-service-link
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://echo-legal.com
   ```
6. Click **Deploy**

### Step 3: Connect Your Domain (5 min)

1. In Vercel project → **Settings** → **Domains**
2. Add: `echo-legal.com`
3. In your domain registrar (Squarespace, GoDaddy, etc.):
   - Add A record: `@` → `76.76.21.21`
   - Add CNAME record: `www` → `cname.vercel-dns.com`
4. Wait 5-10 minutes for DNS propagation

The site will be live at echo-legal.com once DNS propagation completes.

---

## Project Structure

```
echolegal-nextjs/
├── app/
│   └── [lang]/                    # Bilingual routing
│       ├── page.tsx               # Homepage
│       ├── layout.tsx             # Root layout
│       ├── contracts/
│       │   ├── page.tsx           # Contracts library
│       │   ├── nda/page.tsx       # NDA contract page
│       │   └── service-agreement/ # (Create following NDA pattern)
│       ├── encyclopedia/
│       │   └── page.tsx           # Encyclopedia (placeholder)
│       └── support/
│           └── page.tsx           # Support page
│
├── components/
│   ├── Header.tsx                 # Navigation + language switcher
│   ├── Footer.tsx                 # Footer with disclaimer
│   ├── DownloadSection.tsx        # Payment + free download
│   └── DownloadModal.tsx          # Free download modal
│
├── dictionaries/
│   ├── en.json                    # English translations
│   └── tr.json                    # Turkish translations
│
├── middleware.ts                  # Auto language detection
├── i18n-config.ts                 # i18n configuration
└── get-dictionary.ts              # Translation loader
```

---

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:3000
```

The site will auto-detect your browser language and redirect to /en or /tr.

---

## Adding New Contracts

### Quick Guide (10 minutes per contract):

1. **Create the page**:
   ```bash
   cp app/[lang]/contracts/nda/page.tsx app/[lang]/contracts/new-contract/page.tsx
   ```

2. **Edit the content** in `page.tsx`:
   - Change title, intro, clauses
   - Update `stripePaymentLink` variable
   - Translate both EN and TR sections

3. **Add to library** (`app/[lang]/contracts/page.tsx`):
   ```javascript
   {
     slug: 'new-contract',
     titleEn: 'Your Contract Name',
     titleTr: 'Sözleşme Adı',
     descEn: 'Description',
     descTr: 'Açıklama',
     available: true,
   }
   ```

4. **Create Stripe payment link** (see Step 1 above)

5. **Deploy**: `git push` (Vercel auto-deploys)

---

## Design System

### Colors
- **Legal Navy**: `#0A1628` (Primary, headers)
- **Legal Gold**: `#D4AF37` (CTA buttons, accents)
- **Legal Gray**: `#4A5568` (Body text)

### Typography
- **Headings**: Crimson Pro (serif)
- **Body**: Inter (sans-serif)

### Components
- **btn-primary**: Gold CTA buttons
- **btn-secondary**: Navy buttons
- **disclaimer-box**: Yellow warning boxes

---

## Legal Compliance

Every page includes:
- Global footer disclaimer
- "No legal advice" warning
- "No attorney-client relationship" notice
- Jurisdiction clarity
- Contract-specific disclaimers  

---

## SEO Features

- **JSON-LD Schema** on every page
- **hreflang tags** for bilingual SEO
- **Automatic sitemap** (via Next.js)
- **Meta tags** optimized per page
- **OpenGraph** ready for social sharing

### SEO Audit

An automated audit script validates the production sitemap and every page:

**Sitemap XML validation:**
- Response is valid XML with proper `xmlns:xhtml` namespace
- Every `<url>` has exactly one `<loc>` and `hreflang` alternates for `en`, `tr`, `x-default`
- No duplicate `hreflang` within a `<url>`, no duplicate `<loc>` across sitemap

**Per-page HTML checks:**
- Exactly one `<link rel="canonical">` pointing to `echo-legal.com`
- Correct language prefix (`/en` or `/tr`) in the canonical URL
- `hreflang` alternates for `en`, `tr`, and `x-default`
- Search pages have `noindex, follow` robots directive

```bash
# Run locally (requires the production site to be live)
npm run seo:audit
```

This runs weekly and on-demand via GitHub Actions (`workflow_dispatch`).

### To submit sitemap:
1. Go to [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console)
2. Add property: `echo-legal.com`
3. Submit sitemap: `https://echo-legal.com/sitemap.xml`

---

## Payment Flow

### Paid Download:
1. User clicks "I CAN Afford It – $20"
2. Redirects to Stripe Checkout
3. After payment → Redirects to `/download-success`
4. User downloads document

### Free Download:
1. User clicks "I CANNOT Afford It – Free"
2. Modal appears with disclaimer
3. User checks acknowledgment
4. Download begins immediately

---

## Bilingual System

### How it works:
- `/` → Auto-detects language → Redirects to `/en` or `/tr`
- `/en` → English version
- `/tr` → Turkish version
- Language switcher in header switches between versions
- All content translated in `dictionaries/en.json` and `dictionaries/tr.json`

### Adding translations:
Edit `dictionaries/en.json` or `tr.json` to add new strings.

---

## Dependencies

**Core**:
- Next.js 14 (App Router)
- React 18
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS

**Payments**:
- Stripe (via payment links - no server code needed)

**Content**:
- gray-matter (Markdown frontmatter - for future articles)
- marked (Markdown parsing)

---

## Important Notes

### Environment Variables
**Never commit `.env.local`** to Git. It contains sensitive data.

Always use `.env.example` as template.

### Stripe Test Mode
Test payments first:
- Use test mode in Stripe
- Test card: `4242 4242 4242 4242`
- Switch to live mode when ready

### Document URLs
Currently pointing to placeholder `/documents/nda-template.pdf`.

**To fix**:
1. Upload PDFs to `/public/documents/`
2. Update paths in contract pages
3. Or use external CDN (recommended for larger files)

---

## Performance

**Expected Lighthouse Scores**:
- Performance: 95+
- Accessibility: 100
- Best Practices: 100
- SEO: 100

Vercel automatically optimizes:
- Image optimization
- Code splitting
- CDN caching
- Edge functions

---

## Updating Content

### Quick content updates (no redeploy):
Edit content directly in page files → Git push → Vercel auto-deploys in ~1 min

### Adding contracts:
1. Copy existing contract page
2. Edit content
3. Add to contracts library list
4. Push to Git

---

## Technical Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| Framework | Next.js 14 (App Router) |
| Language | TypeScript |
| Styling | Tailwind CSS |
| Hosting | Vercel |
| Payments | Stripe Checkout |
| i18n | Custom middleware |
| SEO | JSON-LD schema |

---

## Pre-Launch Checklist

Before going live:

- [ ] Stripe payment links configured
- [ ] Environment variables set in Vercel
- [ ] Domain connected and SSL active
- [ ] Test payment in Stripe test mode
- [ ] Test free download flow
- [ ] Test language switching
- [ ] Test on mobile device
- [ ] Submit sitemap to Google
- [ ] Set up Google Analytics (optional)
- [ ] Upload actual contract PDFs
- [ ] Review all legal disclaimers

---

## Troubleshooting

### Site not redirecting to /en or /tr
- Clear browser cache
- Check middleware.ts is present
- Verify middleware.ts is not in `.gitignore`

### Payment not working
- Verify Stripe payment link is correct
- Check redirect URL matches deployed site
- Ensure Stripe is in live mode (not test)

### Download not working
- Check document URLs in contract pages
- Verify files exist in `/public/documents/`
- Check browser console for errors

### Language switcher not working
- Check Header.tsx has correct logic
- Verify URLs are formatted correctly
- Clear browser cache

---

## Support

For questions or issues:
- Check GitHub issues
- Email: support@echo-legal.com

---

## Summary

The application is production-ready with the following capabilities:
- Bilingual EN/TR
- Stripe payments
- Free downloads
- SEO optimized

**Recommended next steps**:
1. Add more contract templates (approximately 10 minutes each)
2. Create encyclopedia articles
3. Distribute to target audience
4. Monitor analytics

**Estimated time to add 10 contracts**: approximately 2 hours
**Maintenance**: less than 1 hour per week

---

**EchoLegal**
**Version**: 1.0  
**Last Updated**: January 21, 2026
